>> Jason Lengstorf: Another way to think
of it is that it's a Progressive Web App
generator.
So because we are shipping static assets
that rehydrate in the react apps,
that also means that using things like
service workers allows us to catch offline
versions and upload a manifester plug-ins
for both of those things that make it
relatively straight forward to make your
apps available offline using Gatsby.
That obviously isn't gonna solve
the client site problem, but
it will make all of the build time data
and all of your static assets available so
that someone could save it offline for
use later.
Ultimately, the goal with Gatsby is to
make the right thing the easy thing.
The idea is to set good defaults so
that if somebody just
leaves it as is out of the box,
they're gonna get a good result.
Another way to say that is that we're
trying to design tools so that somebody
who is completely under deadline pressure
and takes every shortcut in the book,
delivers an excellent experience
to the people using the website.
So Gatsby under the hood
is setting good defaults.
It's following the purple pattern,
which if you follow Addy Osmani, or
the Google Chrome dev team,
I think is who could put this
out which is all about like.
How to structure data request for
pre-loading and rendering in
the background and lots of things that
make it more performing on the website.
I'm not gonna go into the details of that,
the purple pattern is
worth looking up though.
It also generates only static assets
which again taking the server out of
the equation,
that's one less hop that your users
have to make to get to the data.
And then Gatsby will optimize an lazy-load
assets, so you can take, instead of
a single three megabyte image off of your
phone that you've uploaded to your blog.
That'll get compressed, cut down,
turned into the right size image for
the viewport loading it, and it only gets
loaded when it shows up in the viewport,
which saves your users
megabytes of data transfer and
potentially never loads it at all if they
don't scroll to that part of the page.
It'll normalize third party data as well.
So again, we talked about
the data access through GraphQL.
By doing that, you don't have to
figure out how to asynchronously load
a bunch of third party API's and
try to make that performance.
If you end up in a situation where you're
making lots of asynchronous calls,
you're probably gonna be
tempted to use async await.
But if you use async await, and you're
not setting up like a promise dot all,
then they're actually blocking and
running sequentially.
So inadvertently,
you'll make your pages really slow.
By normalizing that data into GraphQL,
Gatsby handles all of that for you.
So you don't actually have to think
about how to get that data in quickly.
And because you're doing it at build time,
you feel that pain as a developer,
if you do something that's not
performing because the build is slow.
But the static assets that
get generated are fast.
And so your users don't feel the pain
if you do something silly with
your data management.
I mean, you wanna fix that obviously, but
it becomes your problem not theirs, right?
The other thing that I think is
really important about this is that,
while Gatsby has a lot of opinions and
sets up a bunch of defaults.
It also gives you a huge
amount of control.
So you can get all the way
down to the Webpack config,
you can get all the way
down to the Babel config.
But the thing that's important is that
Gatsby uses a model that I I've started
calling progressive
disclosure of complexity.
I don't think I made up that term but
I've co-opted it.
Which is the idea that,
when you want to modify something,
you should only have to eject
the piece that you want to modify.
We've probably all seen this when you
use some kind of a boiler plated tool
that it does all the things that we
want and then we hit an edge case and
suddenly, all of the config
is managed by us.
The entire app becomes objective, and
now any change that happens upstream,
we have to manually migrate.
There are a lot of pain
points involved in that.
So Gatsby tries to get rid of that by only
exposing pieces one section at a time.
If you make a Babel adjustment,
you don't have to eject
the entire Gatsby build pipeline.
You're just injecting that one
little piece of Babel config.
So, to kind of recap this, Gatsby is
fast and all the ways that matter,
it makes you faster as a developer,
it makes you faster.
The experience that your
users will see is faster.
And it's fast to get started,
fast to ship and iterate.
And those are all really important things.
And lets you bring in your data from
anywhere because it can use the file
system, API, software as a service.
It doesn't restrict you as
a developer on what you can build or
where you can build it from.
It does the right thing by default by
setting up good guard rails in defaults,
you're able to cut most of the corners and
still get a good result.
And I think this is probably
the most important thing for me.
Gatsby actually made web development fun
for me again, if I have a silly idea for
a project, I actually build it now.
Because before I would get halfway
through a web pack config, and
then I would get disheartened, and
I wouldn't wanna do it anymore.
And so with Gatsby, when you just
say Gatsby new use your template,
it will just give you something that
you can run Gatsby development.
It's in the browser and it's working and
I'm immediately writing UI code.
I'm not trying to figure out how
to get my boilerplate to work so
that I can ship something.
So, that's kind of the overview, right?
That's my pitch on why Gatsby
is worth looking into and
why it's worth taking
seriously as a web technology.
But the rabbit hole goes so much deeper
and that's what we're gonna do today.